Now turn the framework into a 4D AI Fluency Card.
Score the current task, not your identity.
The purpose is to find the weak link before you give AI more context, tools, or authority.
Use a simple scale: zero means the decision is missing, one means it is partly explicit, and two means it is clear and testable.
Do not hide a zero inside a high total.
Any missing dimension can block the workflow.
For Delegation, ask: Is the desired outcome specific?
Have I chosen what AI does and what remains human?
Are tools, permissions, stop conditions, and handoff evidence bounded?
If not, keep the task in collaboration.
For Description, ask: Does the brief include relevant context, audience, constraints, examples only where useful, and an acceptance test?
Could another session act on it without guessing what “good” means?
For Discernment, ask: Have I checked task fit, important claims, assumptions, and uncertainty?
Did I compare evidence or test a failure case where the result matters?
Polished language earns no automatic point.
For Diligence, ask: Is the action reversible, authorized, recorded, and verified afterward?
Do I know who owns the final decision?
Before consequential execution, require two points in every dimension, not merely a good average.
First, score the task from zero to two on each of the four dimensions.
Second, treat any zero as a reason to stop and repair the workflow.
Third, expand AI authority only after all four dimensions are testable.